default_tos.md, before:

# Terms of Service
### Data Collected
Your username and a hash of your password, any posts you make and a list of accounts which you follow. The admin of the site does not know your password and it is not stored in plaintext anywhere.

There is a quota on the number of posts retained by this instance for each account. Older posts will be removed when the limit is reached. Anything you post here should be considered ephemeral and you should keep a separate personal copy of them if you wish to retain a permanent archive.

No IP addresses are logged.

Posts can be removed on request if there is sufficient justification, but the nature of ActivityPub means that deletion of posts federated to other instances cannot be guaranteed.

### Content Policy
This instance will not host content containing sexism, racism, casteism, homophobia, transphobia, misogyny, antisemitism or other forms of bigotry or discrimination on the basis of nationality or immigration status. Claims that transgressions of this type were intended to be "ironic" will be treated as a terms of service violation.

Even if not conspicuously discriminatory, expressions of support for organizations with discrminatory agendas are not permitted on this instance. These include, but are not limited to, racial supremacist groups, the redpill/incel movement, anti-vaccination, anti-LGBT and anti-immigrant campaigns.

Algorithmic content: i.e. text, images, audio or video which has been generated using "AI" or Large Language Models should be clearly marked, such as by using an appropriate hashtag or content warning. Algorithmic content not marked as such will be considered to be spam and removed. Accounts posting only unmarked algorithmic content will also be deleted.

Depictions of injury, death or medical procedures are not permitted.

Publication of private information (aka doxxing), such as home address, without the consent of the person to whom the information belongs is not permitted.

Violent or abusive content will be subject to moderation and is likely to be removed. The main exception to this is journalists reporting from war zones, covering protests, or reporting on war crimes investigations in which distressing content may be an important public interest aspect of the story.

Cruelty towards animals is not permitted.

Encouraging or assisting suicide, or making death threats, is not permitted.

Genocide denial or apologia are not permitted.

Due to lack of age verification, content of a pornographic nature in the form of text, photos or fictional depictions is not permitted. Non-pornographic discussions of sex or gender issues are permitted though.

Moderators rely upon your reports. Don't assume that something of concern has already been reported. It's better for there to be duplicate reports than for something potentially damaging to go unreported.

Content found to be non-compliant with this policy will be removed and any accounts on this instance producing, repeating or linking to such content will be deleted typically without prior notification.

### No Intellectual Property Transfer
This instance claims no intellectual property rights over any content within posts that you submit, other than the ability to display your content and federate it, as determined by the scope of your posts (public, followers only, direct messages, etc) and any content license that you optionally select (such as a Creative Commons one) at the point of post creation.

If you delete posts, or delete your account, then this instance ceases to display and federate your content as instructed, although federated posts may continue to be viewable on other instances or archive websites if they do not comply with federated deletions.

### Federation Policy
In a proactive effort to avoid the classic fate of *"embrace, extend, extinguish"* this system will block any instance launched, acquired or funded by Alphabet/Google, Facebook/Meta/Threads, Twitter/x.com, Microsoft, Apple, Amazon, Elsevier or other monopolistic Silicon Valley companies.

This system will not federate with instances whose moderation policy is incompatible with the content policy described above. If an instance lacks a moderation policy, or refuses to enforce one, it will be assumed to be incompatible.

This system will not federate with instances publishing unmarked algorithmic content.

### Use by Research Organizations and Universities
Data may not be "scraped" or otherwise obtained from this instance and used for academic research or cited within research publications without the prior written permission of the administrator. Financial remedy will be sought through the courts from any researcher publishing data obtained from this instance without consent.

The administrator of this instance does not agree to participate in human subjects research, or research to study website policies and practices, carried out by academic institutions or their executors without prior written consent.

### Commercial Use
Commercial use of original content on this instance is strictly forbidden without the prior written permission of individual account holders. The instance administrator does not hold copyright on any original content posted by account holders. Publication or federation of content does not imply permission for commercial use.

Commercial use includes the harvesting of data to create products or subscription based services which are then sold, such as statistics, business reports or machine learning models.

### Copyrights
Epicyon is licensed under [GNU AGPL version 3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0-standalone.html)

Emojis designed by [OpenMoji](https://openmoji.org) – the open-source emoji and icon project. License: [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0)

Blob Cat Emoji and Meowmoji were made by Nitro Blob Hub, licensed under [Apache 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Commit message:

Expand scraping prohibition to include machine learning models

default_tos.md, after:

# Terms of Service
### Data Collected
Your username and a hash of your password, any posts you make and a list of accounts which you follow. The admin of the site does not know your password and it is not stored in plaintext anywhere.

There is a quota on the number of posts retained by this instance for each account. Older posts will be removed when the limit is reached. Anything you post here should be considered ephemeral and you should keep a separate personal copy of them if you wish to retain a permanent archive.

No IP addresses are logged.

Posts can be removed on request if there is sufficient justification, but the nature of ActivityPub means that deletion of posts federated to other instances cannot be guaranteed.

### Content Policy
This instance will not host content containing sexism, racism, casteism, homophobia, transphobia, misogyny, antisemitism or other forms of bigotry or discrimination on the basis of nationality or immigration status. Claims that transgressions of this type were intended to be "ironic" will be treated as a terms of service violation.

Even if not conspicuously discriminatory, expressions of support for organizations with discrminatory agendas are not permitted on this instance. These include, but are not limited to, racial supremacist groups, the redpill/incel movement, anti-vaccination, anti-LGBT and anti-immigrant campaigns.

Algorithmic content: i.e. text, images, audio or video which has been generated using "AI" or Large Language Models should be clearly marked, such as by using an appropriate hashtag or content warning. Algorithmic content not marked as such will be considered to be spam and removed. Accounts posting only unmarked algorithmic content will also be deleted.

Depictions of injury, death or medical procedures are not permitted.

Publication of private information (aka doxxing), such as home address, without the consent of the person to whom the information belongs is not permitted.

Violent or abusive content will be subject to moderation and is likely to be removed. The main exception to this is journalists reporting from war zones, covering protests, or reporting on war crimes investigations in which distressing content may be an important public interest aspect of the story.

Cruelty towards animals is not permitted.

Encouraging or assisting suicide, or making death threats, is not permitted.

Genocide denial or apologia are not permitted.

Due to lack of age verification, content of a pornographic nature in the form of text, photos or fictional depictions is not permitted. Non-pornographic discussions of sex or gender issues are permitted though.

Moderators rely upon your reports. Don't assume that something of concern has already been reported. It's better for there to be duplicate reports than for something potentially damaging to go unreported.

Content found to be non-compliant with this policy will be removed and any accounts on this instance producing, repeating or linking to such content will be deleted typically without prior notification.

### No Intellectual Property Transfer
This instance claims no intellectual property rights over any content within posts that you submit, other than the ability to display your content and federate it, as determined by the scope of your posts (public, followers only, direct messages, etc) and any content license that you optionally select (such as a Creative Commons one) at the point of post creation.

If you delete posts, or delete your account, then this instance ceases to display and federate your content as instructed, although federated posts may continue to be viewable on other instances or archive websites if they do not comply with federated deletions.

### Federation Policy
In a proactive effort to avoid the classic fate of *"embrace, extend, extinguish"* this system will block any instance launched, acquired or funded by Alphabet/Google, Facebook/Meta/Threads, Twitter/x.com, Microsoft, Apple, Amazon, Elsevier or other monopolistic Silicon Valley companies.

This system will not federate with instances whose moderation policy is incompatible with the content policy described above. If an instance lacks a moderation policy, or refuses to enforce one, it will be assumed to be incompatible.

This system will not federate with instances publishing unmarked algorithmic content.

### Use by Research Organizations, Universities and Machine Learning models
Data may not be "scraped" or otherwise obtained from this instance and used for academic research or cited within research publications or used to train machine learning models (LLMs or generative models) without the prior written permission of the administrator. Financial remedy will be sought through the courts from any individual or organisation publishing data obtained by such methods from this instance without consent and outside of the expected federation functionality according to the scope of posts.

The administrator of this instance does not agree to participate in human subjects research, or research to study website policies and practices, carried out by academic organisations or their subcontractors without prior written consent.

### Commercial Use
Commercial use of original content on this instance is strictly forbidden without the prior written permission of individual account holders. The instance administrator does not hold copyright on any original content posted by account holders. Publication or federation of content does not imply permission for commercial use.

Commercial use includes the harvesting of data to create products or subscription based services which are then sold, such as statistics, business reports or machine learning models.

### Copyrights
Epicyon is licensed under [GNU AGPL version 3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0-standalone.html)

Emojis designed by [OpenMoji](https://openmoji.org) – the open-source emoji and icon project. License: [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0)

Blob Cat Emoji and Meowmoji were made by Nitro Blob Hub, licensed under [Apache 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
